425 docs rfcadd docs for the mcp server (#4477)
timescale/docs: _partials/_devops-cli-reference.md

|         | logout                                             | Remove the credentials used to create authenticated connections to $CLOUD_LONG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |

> |         | whoami                                             | Show information about the current user                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |

Reviewer: `tiger auth whoami` has been removed and replaced with `tiger auth status`:

```suggestion
|         | status                                             | Show current authentication status and project ID                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
```

|         | get `<service-id>` (aliases: describe, show)      | Show detailed information about a specific $SERVICE_SHORT in this $PROJECT_SHORT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |

> |         | create                                             | Create a new $SERVICE_SHORT in this $PROJECT_SHORT. Possible flags are: <ul><li>`--name`: service name (auto-generated if not provided)</li><li>`--addons`: addons to enable (time-series, ai, or 'none' for PostgreSQL-only)</li><li>`--region`: region code where the service will be deployed</li><li>`--cpu-memory`: cPU/memory allocation combination</li><li>`--replicas`: number of high-availability replicas</li><li>`--no-wait`: don't wait for operation to complete</li><li>`--wait-timeout`: wait timeout duration (e.g., 30m, 1h30m, 90s)</li><li>`--no-set-default`: don't set this service as the default service</li><li>`--with-password`: include password in output</li><li>`--output, -o`: output format (`json`, `yaml`, table)</li></ul> <br/> Possible `cpu-memory` combinations are: <ul><li>shared/shared</li><li>0.5 CPU/2 GB</li><li>1 CPU/4 GB</li><li>2 CPU/8 GB</li><li>4 CPU/16 GB</li><li>8 CPU/32 GB</li><li>16 CPU/64 GB</li><li>32 CPU/128 GB</li></ul> |

Reviewer 2: should only 'none' be in quotes? + PostgreSQL --> Postgres

Author: Nope

> |         | create                                             | Create a new $SERVICE_SHORT in this $PROJECT_SHORT. Possible flags are: <ul><li>`--name`: service name (auto-generated if not provided)</li><li>`--addons`: addons to enable (time-series, ai, or 'none' for PostgreSQL-only)</li><li>`--region`: region code where the service will be deployed</li><li>`--cpu-memory`: cPU/memory allocation combination</li><li>`--replicas`: number of high-availability replicas</li><li>`--no-wait`: don't wait for operation to complete</li><li>`--wait-timeout`: wait timeout duration (e.g., 30m, 1h30m, 90s)</li><li>`--no-set-default`: don't set this service as the default service</li><li>`--with-password`: include password in output</li><li>`--output, -o`: output format (`json`, `yaml`, table)</li></ul> <br/> Possible `cpu-memory` combinations are: <ul><li>shared/shared</li><li>0.5 CPU/2 GB</li><li>1 CPU/4 GB</li><li>2 CPU/8 GB</li><li>4 CPU/16 GB</li><li>8 CPU/32 GB</li><li>16 CPU/64 GB</li><li>32 CPU/128 GB</li></ul> |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|         | create                                             | Create a new $SERVICE_SHORT in this $PROJECT_SHORT. Possible flags are: <ul><li>`--name`: service name (auto-generated if not provided)</li><li>`--addons`: addons to enable (time-series, ai, or 'none' for PostgreSQL-only)</li><li>`--region`: region code where the service will be deployed</li><li>`--cpu-memory`: CPU/memory allocation combination</li><li>`--replicas`: number of high-availability replicas</li><li>`--no-wait`: don't wait for the operation to complete</li><li>`--wait-timeout`: wait timeout duration (for example, 30m, 1h30m, 90s)</li><li>`--no-set-default`: don't set this service as the default service</li><li>`--with-password`: include password in output</li><li>`--output, -o`: output format (`json`, `yaml`, table)</li></ul> <br/> Possible `cpu-memory` combinations are: <ul><li>shared/shared</li><li>0.5 CPU/2 GB</li><li>1 CPU/4 GB</li><li>2 CPU/8 GB</li><li>4 CPU/16 GB</li><li>8 CPU/32 GB</li><li>16 CPU/64 GB</li><li>32 CPU/128 GB</li></ul> |
```

> |         | delete `<service-id>`                              | Delete a $SERVICE_SHORT from this $PROJECT_SHORT. This operation is irreversible and requires confirmation by typing the service ID.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|         | delete `<service-id>`                              | Delete a $SERVICE_SHORT from this $PROJECT_SHORT. This operation is irreversible and requires confirmation by typing the service ID                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
```

> |         | fork `<service-id>`                                | Fork an existing database service to create a new independent copy. Key features are: <ul><li><strong>Timing options</strong>: `--now`, `--last-snapshot`, `--to-timestamp`</li><li><strong>Resource configuration</strong>: `--cpu-memory`</li><li><strong>Naming</strong>: `--name <name>`. Defaults to {source-service-name}-fork</li><li><strong>Wait behavior</strong>: `--no-wait`, `--wait-timeout`</li><li><strong>Default service</strong>: `--no-set-default`</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |

Reviewer 2: what's a database service?

> |         | fork `<service-id>`                                | Fork an existing database service to create a new independent copy. Key features are: <ul><li><strong>Timing options</strong>: `--now`, `--last-snapshot`, `--to-timestamp`</li><li><strong>Resource configuration</strong>: `--cpu-memory`</li><li><strong>Naming</strong>: `--name <name>`. Defaults to {source-service-name}-fork</li><li><strong>Wait behavior</strong>: `--no-wait`, `--wait-timeout`</li><li><strong>Default service</strong>: `--no-set-default`</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|         | fork `<service-id>`                                | Fork an existing database service to create a new independent copy. Key features are: <ul><li><strong>Timing options</strong>: `--now`, `--last-snapshot`, `--to-timestamp`</li><li><strong>Resource configuration</strong>: `--cpu-memory`</li><li><strong>Naming</strong>: `--name <name>`. Defaults to `{source-service-name}-fork`</li><li><strong>Wait behavior</strong>: `--no-wait`, `--wait-timeout`</li><li><strong>Default service</strong>: `--no-set-default`</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
```

> |         | create                                             | Create a new $SERVICE_SHORT in this $PROJECT_SHORT. Possible flags are: <ul><li>`--name`: Service name (auto-generated if not provided)</li><li>`--addons`: Addons to enable (time-series, ai, or 'none' for PostgreSQL-only)</li><li>`--region`: Region code where the service will be deployed</li><li>`--cpu-memory`: CPU/memory allocation combination</li><li>`--replicas`: Number of high-availability replicas</li><li>`--no-wait`: Don't wait for operation to complete</li><li>`--wait-timeout`: Wait timeout duration (e.g., 30m, 1h30m, 90s)</li><li>`--no-set-default`: Don't set this service as the default service</li><li>`--with-password`: Include password in output</li><li>`--output, -o`: Output format (json, yaml, table)</li></ul> <br/> Possible `cpu-memory` combinations are: <ul><li>shared/shared</li><li>0.5 CPU/2 GB</li><li>1 CPU/4 GB</li><li>2 CPU/8 GB</li><li>4 CPU/16 GB</li><li>8 CPU/32 GB</li><li>16 CPU/64 GB</li><li>32 CPU/128 GB</li></ul> |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|         | create                                             | Create a new $SERVICE_SHORT in this $PROJECT_SHORT. Possible flags are: <ul><li>`--name`: Service name (auto-generated if not provided)</li><li>`--addons`: Addons to enable (time-series, ai, or 'none' for PostgreSQL-only)</li><li>`--region`: Region code where the service will be deployed</li><li>`--cpu-memory`: CPU/memory allocation combination</li><li>`--replicas`: Number of high-availability replicas</li><li>`--no-wait`: Don't wait for operation to complete</li><li>`--wait-timeout`: Wait timeout duration (e.g., 30m, 1h30m, 90s)</li><li>`--no-set-default`: Don't set this service as the default service</li><li>`--with-password`: Include password in output</li><li>`--output, -o`: Output format (`json`, `yaml`, table)</li></ul> <br/> Possible `cpu-memory` combinations are: <ul><li>shared/shared</li><li>0.5 CPU/2 GB</li><li>1 CPU/4 GB</li><li>2 CPU/8 GB</li><li>4 CPU/16 GB</li><li>8 CPU/32 GB</li><li>16 CPU/64 GB</li><li>32 CPU/128 GB</li></ul> |
```

Reviewer 2: There are caps after colons here - could you do lower case for alignment?

|         | connect `<service-id>`                             | Connect to a $SERVICE_SHORT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |

> |         | test-connection `<service-id>`                     | Test the connectivity to a $SERVICE_SHORT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

Reviewer: This is also a new `tiger db save-password` command (added in https://github.com/timescale/tiger-cli/pull/60)

> | mcp     |                                                    | Manage the $MCP_LONG for AI assistant integration                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| mcp     |                                                    | Manage the $MCP_LONG for AI Assistant integration                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
```

> |         | install `[client]`                                 | Install and configure $MCP_LONG for a specific client (`claude-code`, `cursor`, `windsurf`, or other). If no client is specified, you'll be prompted to select one interactively.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|         | install `[client]`                                 | Install and configure $MCP_LONG for a specific client (`claude-code`, `cursor`, `windsurf`, or other). If no client is specified, you'll be prompted to select one interactively                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
```

|         | start stdio                                        | Start the $MCP_LONG with stdio transport (default)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

> |         | start http                                         | Start the $MCP_LONG with HTTP transport. Includes flags: `--port` (default: 8080), `--host` (default: localhost)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|         | start http                                         | Start the $MCP_LONG with HTTP transport. Includes flags: `--port` (default: `8080`), `--host` (default: `localhost`)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
```

> |         | install `[client]`                                 | Install and configure Tiger MCP server for a specific client (claude-code, cursor, windsurf, etc.). If no client is specified, you'll be prompted to select one interactively.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|         | install `[client]`                                 | Install and configure $MCP_LONG for a specific client (`claude-code`, `cursor`, `windsurf`, or other). If no client is specified, you'll be prompted to select one interactively.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
```

## Global flags

You can use the following global flags with $CLI_LONG:

<GLOBALFLAGS />

## Configuration parameters

By default, $CLI_LONG stores your configuration in `~/.config/tiger/config.yaml`. The name of these
variables matches the flags you use to update them. However, you can override them using the following
environmental variables:

- **Configuration parameters**
    - `TIGER_CONFIG_DIR`: path to configuration directory (default: `~/.config/tiger`)
    - `TIGER_API_URL`: $REST_LONG base endpoint (default: https://console.cloud.timescale.com/public/api/v1)
    - `TIGER_CONSOLE_URL`: URL to $CONSOLE (default: https://console.cloud.timescale.com)
    - `TIGER_GATEWAY_URL`: URL to the $CONSOLE gateway (default: https://console.cloud.timescale.com/api)
    - `TIGER_DOCS_MCP`: enable/disable docs MCP proxy (default: true)

>     - `TIGER_DOCS_MCP_URL`: URL to the MCP server for $COMPANY docs (default: https://mcp.tigerdata.com/docs)

Reviewer 2: variable for MCP server

    - `TIGER_PROJECT_ID`: ID for the project updated when you call $CLI_SHORT commands

>     - `TIGER_SERVICE_ID`: ID for the service updated when you call $CLI_SHORT commands

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - `TIGER_SERVICE_ID`: ID for the $SERVICE_SHORT updated when you call $CLI_SHORT commands
```

    - `TIGER_OUTPUT`: output format (`json`, `yaml`, or table)

>     - `TIGER_ANALYTICS`: enable or disable analytics (default: true)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - `TIGER_ANALYTICS`: enable or disable analytics (default: `true`)
```

    - `TIGER_PASSWORD_STORAGE`: password storage method (keyring, pgpass, or none)

>     - `TIGER_DEBUG`: enable/disable debug logging (default: false)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - `TIGER_DEBUG`: enable/disable debug logging (default: `false`)
```

>     - `TIGER_DEBUG`: enable/disable debug logging (default: false)

Reviewer: `TIGER_OUTPUT` and `TIGER_PROJECT_ID` have been removed.

Additionally, there is now a `TIGER_COLOR` env var that corresponds to the new `--color` global flag.

Author: Done

- **Authentication parameters**

  To authenticate without using the interactive login, set the following with your [client credentials][rest-api-credentials]:

    - `TIGER_PUBLIC_KEY`: public key

>     - `TIGER_SECRET_KEY`: secret key

Reviewer: To be clear, you still need to run `tiger auth login` when setting these parameters, and you also need to set `TIGER_PROJECT_ID`. For example, you could do:

```bash
TIGER_PUBLIC_KEY=<public_key> TIGER_SECRET_KEY=<secret_key> TIGER_PROJECT_ID=<project_id> tiger auth login
```

This would log you in without performing the interactive OAuth flow.

Alternatively, you could provide the values as flags:

```bash
tiger auth login --public-key=<public_key> --secret-key=<secret-key> --project-id=<project_id>
```

Author: Done

>     - `TIGER_CONFIG_DIR`: path to configuration directory (default: ~/.config/tiger)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - `TIGER_CONFIG_DIR`: path to configuration directory (default: `~/.config/tiger`)
```

>     - `TIGER_OUTPUT`: output format (json, yaml, or table)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - `TIGER_OUTPUT`: output format (`json`, `yaml`, or table)
```
